# Hit Points and Wounds System

## Hit points
All characters have two pools of Hit Points.
**Health** - represents the characters vitality.
**Stamina**  - represents the characters armor and resilience. A layer of gear and toughness to absorb punishment before vital damage. 
During combat, unless otherwise mentioned Stamina pool is depleted first. 
All human characters start with:
- **2 Max Wounds**  
- **5 HP Per Wound**
## HP Calculation
Stamina = (Armor + Endurance) * Max Wounds
Health = HP Per Wound * Max Wounds + ExtraHP

**Total HP = Stamina+Health**
## Taking Damage and Consequences

**Half-Health:** First time you fall below 50% of your Health during combat roll 2d10 on the [Consequence Table].

**0 Health:** **Each** time your Health reaches or goes bellow 0 roll 1d100 - (Remaining Wounds × 10) on the Consequences Table, Mark 1 wound (reducing max Health and Stamina until fully recovered). 
### Getting below 0 HP and Death
When below 0 Health you need to roll Endure vs Treatment DC of your highest treatment DC wound to stay conscious at the end of each of your turns. 

Each lethal hit you take in this state makes you roll on the consequence table.
Each non-lethal hit you take in this state makes you roll Endure against the hit to stay conscious.

When below negative full Health - you fall unconscious. Unless the attack was nonlethal you also need to roll Endure vs Treatment DC to stay alive at the end of each of your turns.

If your wounds would exceed max wounds you die.
## Nonlethal and Critical Hits
- **Non-lethal attacks:** if the attack forcing the consequence was non-lethal Roll 2d10 instead of 1d100. 
- **Critical hit:** if the attack forcing the consequence was critical, Add +10 to the consequence roll.
- If the damage forcing the consequence was **persistent** - don't roll for the consequence.

### Increasing Hit Points

#### Perk: ExtraHP (Endurance/Will)
- **Cost:** Max_Wounds * CP per level of Extra_HP
- **Consolidation:** When Extra_HP level reaches  5 it consolidates into an extra Wound, increasing Max_Wounds by 1.  The new wound operates like all other, i.e.  you gain full armor and endurance bonus like with existing wounds. 

- **Example:** Character with 0 endurance, +2 Armor and 2 wounds has 4 levels of ExtraHP
  - Current: 2 wounds 14 Health and 4 Stamina for overall of 18  
  - After buying 1 more HP: 15 Health and 6 Stamina for overall of 21.

### Progression Examples
- **Starting:** 2 wounds × 5 HP = 10 total HP
- **+1 Wound (10 CP):** 15 total HP (21 with armor 2)
- **+2 Wounds (20 CP):** 20 total HP (32 with armor 3)
