## Hit Points and Wounds System

### Hit points
All characters have two pools of Hit Points.
**Health** - represents the characters vitality.
**Stamina**  - represents the characters armor and resilience. A layer of gear and toughness to absorb punishment before vital damage. 

All human characters start with:
- **2 Max Wounds**  
- **5 HP Per Wound**
### HP Calculation
Stamina = (Armor Bonus +Endurance) * Max Wounds
Health = HP Per Wound * Max Wounds + ExtraHP

**Total HP = Stamina+Health**

During combat, unless otherwise mentioned Stamina pool is depleted first. 
First time you fall below 50% of your Health during combat, and **each** time your Health reaches or goes bellow 0 roll on [Consequences table] in [[3.3 Medical Treatment and Wound Consequences]]  according to the table rules.

### Increasing Hit Points

#### Perk: ExtraHP (Endurance/Will)
- **Cost:** Max_Wounds * CP per level of Extra_HP
- **Consolidation:** When Extra_HP level reaches  5 it consolidates into an extra Wound, increasing Max_Wounds by 1.  The new wound operates like all other, i.e.  you gain full armor and endurance bonus like with existing wounds. 

- **Example:** Character with 0 endurance, +2 Armor and 2 wounds has 4 levels of ExtraHP
  - Current: 2 wounds 14 Health and 4 Stamina for overall of 18  
  - After buying 1 more HP: 15 Health and 6 Stamina for overall of 21.

### Progression Examples
- **Starting:** 2 wounds × 5 HP = 10 total HP
- **+1 Wound (10 CP):** 15 total HP (21 with armor 2)
- **+2 Wounds (20 CP):** 20 total HP (32 with armor 3)
