#Variant_Rule
Learning and Training  requires spending downtime to convert CP into perks and skills. 
It defaults at  **1CP = 1 day of downtime practice**. This time can be greatly extended due to lack of manuals and/or guidance. 

You spend the CP in one batch at the end of the training.


Base - 1CP/Day - you have a manual or a sparring partner, or just can focus on experimenting the whole day if it doesn't require any of that.  

Practice during work to improve or learn has a -50% speed modifier.

Teacher - Anyone with the skill higher than you can act as a skill teacher providing +50% per level of difference. In case of a perk or a spell add Increase the speed by 100%.

Facilities - facilities also have a nice benefit of 20% per tier of the facility.

High Stress Environment - 1+CP per encounter.  

For downtime calculation - (DuringWorkMod+TeacherMod+FacilityMod)CP/Day. Its a bit long, but precise calculations are not required here.
# Note To GMs
This rule is situational. It might not work at all during your campaigns so feel free to cut if off, its a variant rule designed for campaigns that utilize downtime. 
This rule is to be tracked loosely in favor of players, as this is just a design tool to sustain the coherence of the narrative. 
If players did a heist or fought a fight you might allow them just to straight up level up a skill or gain a perk.  You can even allow a CP debt or grant perks with #Instant trait in debt.


This also gives you a tool to slow down super one dimensional progression, as higher (3+) tiers of abilities will require a manual and/or guidance. This is an aid to **you** GM to create narrative hooks for players to fight an ancient lich to gain his spell-book, or participate in an bankruptcy auction where a fabled manual of a greatsword master is going to be present. This also will increase the weight of organizations and mentors in your game.
 