Weather conduction negotiations, gathering gossips, conning someone of their hard earned money or talking your way out of getting jailed after social interactions follow a set of rules.

GM - using a randomiser or up to his interpretation of the situation comes with the initial level of attitude towards the PC/PCs on and prior the first interaction. This is modified by their race, [[Appearance]], class (social), rank, etc.
The attitude ranges from -5(hostile nemesis/ can attack on site) to +5(fanatical love and adoration).

#TODO - I will need an attitude page, but there is a question if I need to make this a rule heavy on social checks system.

Players interact with NPCs normally, their actions and words affecting the attitude.

In cases players want to skim over the interactions or directly lead to an attitude change or request or offer something a check might be required.

# Actions

## Affect attitude.

Decide which skill you are going to use. You can use an appropriate social skills or like Negotiations, Manipulation, Gossiping, Leadership, Fast-talk (for first impression only), Gossip, Intimidation (usually efficient to lower the attitude), Streetwise or appropriate to the situation skill - like siting with a smith or Arcane Lore with a mage.

Roleplay the said interaction if possible. The target will either change the attitude or resist it with an opposing check. (i.e. GM might decide that your strategy is particularly effective or counterproductive.)

Roll said Skill + Charisma (or other stat, per GM allowance or request). The target opposes it with an appropriate roll (of GM's choice). 
## Detect falsehood 
When you try to detect usage of manipulation and lies you can roll RP+Manipulation or PR+WL whichever is higher.
This is a blind GM check, that will provide you with "Something seems off" or "Nothing seems off" results, but not deep insight into the reasons of something being off. 

## Asking for a favor
People don't need to like you to make you a favor, the question is what they will ask back.
If the attitude is negative, the price will be higher than the cost of favor for them, if it is neutral, they will try to find a win-win condition, and if it is positive they will ask for less than what it would cost them or currently nothing at all assuming your relationships will allow them to ask a favor back in the future.

You can use social skills to better the deal of the favor increasing the attitude for this one favor. On a failure with target with negative attitude or on a crit failure - the price for the favor will increase.
NPCs can decline, counter offer, or accept. 
## Fast-Talk
Use fast talk vs Detect falsehood or Perception/Will. GM will add bonuses from rank and appearance.
# GM Guideline to DCs and opposed rolls.

Most of the calculations happen prior to the rolls. Use Appearance, rank difference and similar to set the initial level of attitude. Usually for someone you see for the first time it will range within -2/+2 - NPCs don't care much about your PC most of the time with -2+2 being friendly and unfriendly.  That doesn't prohibit them from fighting PCs in case of a conflict of interest, but friendly NPCs might suggest diplomacy, and unfriendly ones will have to be at a disadvantage not to pursue the players when it aligns their interests.

The first interaction can lead it to be -3/+3, but progressing further will require actions or stakes. 

Mental guideline on favors. This is a rule of thumb logic, no heavy rules required. 
Attitude 0 will ask 20% more, with -5 will ask for thrice as more. 
Attitude 3 will ask for half back or an IOU.
Attitude 5 is fanatically adoring the Players, and likely won't ask a thing in return. 

## Trading
Most items have a listed price.  This is the price items have in the rulebook and is the selling price on the market. Unless item is of a low-margin high-liquidity it can be bargained for.

Rule of thumb buying and selling.
Pawn shops and shops might be willing to buy player's items for 50% of the listed price. Bargaining and attitude change the range to 75-125% of a listed price to buy the item and 25-75% of the selling price. 

As with asking a favor, you can roll social skill to move the attitude for the purchase by 1 step. Use Fast Talk for small purchases, Negotiations/Manipulation for big purchases against seller's social skill. On a success you treat the bargain as 1 step better, on a failure as 1 step worse.