This section is almost unedited from v1 of the game, it was modified to fit v4 structure, but is poorly organized and will be remade before PT5. Bows will be remade.

Archery 1 Feats 
1. Zen Archer (Perception + Archery)[5] - You can change attacking attribute of the bow from dexterity to Perception.
2. Defensive Archer (Agility/Dexterity + Archery)[5] - You can parry with a bow, without risking to break it.  
3. Fast Archer (Agility/Dexterity + Archery)[5]- You can aim as a free action while you move to a maximum of Aim1. 
. Archery 2 Feats (all 10 points for PT2 with Agility/Dexterity + archery)
4. Tower - As long as you didn't move previous and this turns - All your attacks are getting Aim1.
5. Don't Turn your back on me!- You count as a flanking partner within range of your weapon, as if your range was your reach. 
6. Double Shot (4AP)- Shoot two different targets, second at -2 to hit.
Archery 3 Feats (outside PT4 Scope)
7. Overpowered draw(Finisher). Each aim action adds a +1 cumulative to the next strike.
8. Close quarters shooter - When you aim, but strike a target within your close range your attack deals extra damage equal to your archery level.
9. Spell shot - when casting a single target offensive spell, you can store it in the knocked arrow until the end of your next turn, using your bow strike to resolve both the spells. 
Archery 4 Feats
10. Artillery - (Req. Tower) As long as you didn't move this or previous turn, your weapon range = Aim, double your aim X.
11. 